Once we have the template, we can
define a component to use the query.
And so that is gonna get
the result of this query as data.
So the way that Gatsby works during
the build is it's gonna look for
this exported query.
And it will actually executed,
get the data and then inject that data
as a data prop to this component.
This is all done during the build so
there is kind of a rewrite process.
Again, another reason to keep
these templates separate so
that it's clear that they
get special handling.
That data then is going
to be put somewhere and
what I like to do is just pass it directly
to a component that we'll use it.
And so I'm just gonna do that,
I'm gonna go
straight into the data.docsPage can go in.
And now we have to define that but
first, let's export this DocsPage.
Okay, so we're gonna need to go get this,
this DocsPage.
I'm gonna put it in components.
We'll call it doc's-page.js and
inside of this one we're going
to import react from react.
We will import the MDXRenderer.
And the MDXRenderer is used to actually
make this into something readable.
So all this code that MDX generates,
we wanna be able to use it,
and the MDXRenderer makes
that possible for us.
I'm also gonna pull in the Layout
that we used, so let me get that.
And then, we can do a DocsPage component.
We will then put this layout in here,
do an h1,
do page title, and
then put in the MDXRenderer,
page dot body goes inside of that.
And then we'll put a little note at the
bottom that says this page was updated.
Whenever the updated value is,
and again, it's plain language,
so we can just drop it
right into the sentence.
So we're gonna export default Doc'sPage.
And then I can save that,
come back here and let's Import this so
that we can use it.
Import Doc'sPage from components,
Doc'sPage.
And now, if I stop and restart, or what
I need to, before we stop and restart,
we need to actually use these templates.
So we've defined them, but now we
need to run the Create Page API hook.
So back in our gatsby-node,
all the way down at the bottom here.
We're going to use exports, createPages.
And because we're gonna make a request for
data, we're gonna mark
this as an async function.
And the createPages API
gives us a few things.
The first is an actions object that
gives us a bunch of helper functions.
A graphqL function that'll
allow us to get some data.
And then we also have a reporter in case
we wanna output anything to the console,
and then the second argument is
gonna be the options from the theme.
So, We're not really using the options.
So I'm gonna just skip that actually.
So we're gonna get
an object full of actions,
the graphqL function and
a reporter function.
And then inside,
we start out by getting our data.
So we want to do a graphql query.
And inside the createPages graphql
is a function, not a template tag.
That's a little bit of
a gotcha at the beginning.
And inside I'm gonna
get all the DocsPages.
And I want all the nodes, and
all I need in here is the id and the path.
So the id I'm gonna use to
pass in this context and
the path I'm gonna use as a definition for
the URL.
So we've awaited that result.
Then we're just gonna do a quick
check to see if anything wrong.
So if result.errors, we will panic.
So we'll do reporter.panic and we'll say,
error loading docs and
just pass in the errors.
If we get through that,
we can assume everything's okay.
So we'll just grab out our pages
by diving into our data here.
So we'll do result.data.allDocsPage.nodes.
And then once we've got those pages,
we can loop through them so
we'll do a forEach because
we're not returning anything.
And forEach page, we're going to
run an action called createPage.
And that accepts an object which
has two required fields and
one optional field that we're gonna use.
The first required field is path.
And for that,
we're gonna use the page path.
And that's again what we
defined using the base path,
the relative directory and
then the file name.
Next, we need to give it a component.
And that component is gonna be
the template that we just defined.
So we'll do a require.resolve,
go into our source templates, and
the docs-page template.
And finally, we need to set some context.
And the context is an object.
This is arbitrary,
we can put whatever we want.
There are a few reserved fields, but
for the most part, it should be okay.
In the context you'll you'll get a big
warning if you use a reserved field.
So in the context,
I'm gonna pass in this pageID and
I want that to be the page.id.
And whatever name I give it now, it will
become available as a graph qL variable.
So we defined in here pageID.
So by defining pageID in the context,
we're able to access it.
And once we've done this, we are fingers
crossed, ready to rock and roll.
So let's build some pages.
That's promising, we're getting two pages.
Let's give it a look.
Hey, there we go.
So now we've got our Home page.
It shows the MDX content.
It shows our layout, and
it shows us when the page was updated.
So that means that we've
got data coming in
getting customized through Gatsby's
data layer and now it's on the screen.
So this is pretty powerful, right?
We're in pretty good shape here.
So our next move here is going to be to
make this look slightly less terrible.
And in a way that's more extensible.
What's up?
>> Why did it put up two pages I
thought it was only the one MDX file.
>> So there's only the one MDX file, but
Gatsby will always give you a 404 page.
So if we go to a page that
I have it disabled if
we go to a page that doesn't exist,
so let me boot this up.
It will also give us this 404 page.
So this is the page that's being
referenced as the second one.
And that's a really nice thing to have
during development because especially if
you haven't set up your navigation or
something yet.
You can get to the point where like,
you've created a bunch of pages but
you haven't built the list
to show them all.
Well this will give you that list.
So it's a nice little convenience thing
to have when you're still in progress and
things are kind of in various stages of
flux to make sure that you don't forget to
link to certain pages.